Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the equity verse.
Today we're going to talk about the S&P
500 and really talk more about are we
going to see a 10 to 20% drop in stocks
starting in the August to September time
frame. If you guys like the content,
make sure you subscribe to the channel,
give the video a thumbs up, and also
check out the sale on ITC premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
And as a reminder to check out the ITC
conference that will be taking
from November 20th through the 22nd in
Miami, Florida.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, the S&P
we we sort of provided the outline for
it several months ago and I don't know
if you guys remember, but we suggested
that we would likely have a shallow
correction in June
followed by a rally back up in July. And
the reason that the the drop in June was
likely not going to be a larger drop is
because often it's not in the summer,
right? The S&P very very seldomly finds
like a larger top in June. It's not
impossible, right? Like I'm I'm sure it
has happened, but usually July is a good
month
for the stock market. In fact, if you
were to look at um
at I guess we could go look at at
monthly returns here. So, if you were
going to look at at monthly returns and
then change this over to let's look at
at the S&P 500, July has actually been
green
since 2015.
Right? Like I mean it it it's not
a very red month on average as you can
see throughout all of history. It's not
to say that you never had red months,
but the two months that are red on
average for the S&P are August and
September.
And one of the things and this is even
more prevalent, I believe, in midterm
years. So, the idea, generally speaking,
is that when you have these like
distribution phases, where you have like
a you have a short sort of a shallow
drop that lasts for a few weeks, and
then you rally back up, print new highs,
go sideways, and then you get a larger
drop. I'm saying we're just simply doing
that again. We already got our first
drop, and now we're like in this phase
right here, where we're rallying back
up. You probably then start to go
sideways a little bit, and then you're
going to get a bigger drop, probably out
in the August to September time frame.
This is actually exactly what happened
in the last three midterm years. If you
look at the stock market in 2022, it
found a top in August. And and and when
it found that top in August, mid-August,
um the S&P then dropped about 19%.
Now, in 2018,
um the S&P also topped. It topped in
September. And about mid-September, and
from there, the S&P dropped about
20%.
Right? So, you can see it's a it's a
very common thing. And note that in the
summer, the S&P had
a small correction in June before a
larger correction
later. In 2022, you'll see that there
was a small correction in June
before a larger correction later. And if
you go back and look at 2014,
what you'll notice, right, is that we
had a correction starting in September.
And that correction, I believe, was only
about 10%.
Yeah, about 10%. So, you have three
midterm years, three recent midterm
years, where you topped Two of them
topped in September. One of them topped
in August.
10 to 20% drops.
I'm not sure about 2010. I don't
remember off the top of my head. It
might have been different in 2010.
You had a drop. You know, you had a drop
in August, but you actually had a larger
drop earlier in the year. So, it's a
little bit different. But, at least the
last three midterm years have actually
played out in a very similar fashion.
And if you were to go look at the
year-to-date ROI
of the S&P 500
in 2026 and you compare that 2018, you
can kind of see how it played out,
right? You had a correction early on,
you then rallied, and then you had a
larger correction.
If you compare it to 2014, you can see a
correction kind of early on, a rally,
and then there was this this bigger
correction over here in in the late Q3,
early Q4 time period. And then, of
course, 2022 was more or less a bear
market, but you still had a rally around
this time, and then you got a correction
starting in the August time frame. And
if you were to average out, you know,
the S&P 500 and you were to look at just
the last three midterm years, 2022,
2018, and 2014,
we'll add that on here. You can kind of
see what I'm talking about, how the
market usually gets this correction
early on, you then rally kind of going
into the summer, and then there's
another correction in the back half of
the year, and the market can then stay
weak for the rest of the midterm year.
This is what often happens with the
stock market. And the reason why we talk
about it a lot is because for Bitcoin,
normally Bitcoin finds its market cycle
bottom in the correction by the stock
market that occurs in the back half of
the midterm year. So, that's kind of the
thesis that I'm working under for for
these markets and how they kind of
intertwine together. Look for that.
Because if Bitcoin starts to show
weakness in August or September as well,
and the stock market is getting that
typical correction, then the four-year
cycle could be aligning. You might get
that major market cycle bottom for
Bitcoin, potentially a low for the S&P
to also build off of. So, that's my view
for the stock market here in the back
half of the midterm. You know, you might
say, "Why?" You know, my guess is the
correction's going to probably come
from, you know, the semiconductor
industry, from just kind of fears around
some of that stuff.
Um I don't know exactly, but we saw semi
semis get pretty elevated, and I think
if they were to get that seasonal
correction or if they were to get a
correction that would kind of tie into
the seasonal correction we would already
be expecting for the S&P based on the
last three midterm years. Those are my
views. If you guys like the content,
subscribe, give the video a thumbs up,
and be sure to come to the first ITC
conference, Investing Through the
Cycles, in late November in Miami. Links
in the description below or the pinned
comment. Thank you guys for tuning in,
and I'll see you next time. Bye.